---
title: "Writing Clean Code In Go And Ruby"
date: 2017-10-20T00:02:19-07:00
tags: [cats, lorem ipsum, practice]
draft: false
showDate: false
---

## Some stuff
We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win.

Across the sea of space, the stars are other suns.

Science cuts two ways, of course; its products can be used for both good and evil. But there's no turning back from science. The early warnings about technological dangers also come from science.

I don't know what you could say about a day in which you have seen four beautiful sunsets.

Dinosaurs are extinct today because they lacked opposable thumbs and the brainpower to build a space program.

## A second point

Leverage agile frameworks to provide a robust synopsis for high level overviews. Iterative approaches to corporate strategy foster collaborative thinking to further the overall value proposition. Organically grow the holistic world view of disruptive innovation via workplace diversity and empowerment.

Bring to the table win-win survival strategies to ensure proactive domination. At the end of the day, going forward, a new normal that has evolved from generation X is on the runway heading towards a streamlined cloud solution. User generated content in real-time will have multiple touchpoints for offshoring.

Capitalize on low hanging fruit to identify a ballpark value added activity to beta test. Override the digital divide with additional clickthroughs from DevOps. Nanotechnology immersion along the information highway will close the loop on focusing solely on the bottom line.

Podcasting operational change management inside of workflows to establish a framework. Taking seamless key performance indicators offline to maximise the long tail. Keeping your eye on the ball while performing a deep dive on the start-up mentality to derive convergence on cross-platform integration.

### subpoint here on cats

Cat ipsum dolor sit amet, sit on the laptop spread kitty litter all over house so bleghbleghvomit my furball really tie the room together sleep nap. Eat owner's food loves cheeseburgers please stop looking at your phone and pet me. Jump launch to pounce upon little yarn mouse, bare fangs at toy run hide in litter box until treats are fed damn that dog yet swat turds around the house roll over and sun my belly. Jumps off balcony gives owner dead mouse at present then poops in litter box snatches yarn and fights with dog cat chases laser then plays in grass finds tiny spot in cupboard and sleeps all day jumps in bathtub and meows when owner fills food dish the cat knocks over the food dish cat slides down the water slide and into pool and swims even though it does not like water meow meow, i tell my human, you call this cat food have a lot of grump in yourself because you can't forget to be grumpy and not be like king grumpy cat. Cat not kitten around annoy owner until he gives you food say meow repeatedly until belly rubs, feels good for find empty spot in cupboard and sleep all day stare at ceiling light for dream about hunting birds jump five feet high and sideways when a shadow moves i like big cats and i can not lie. Paw at beetle and eat it before it gets away pelt around the house and up and down stairs chasing phantoms but if it smells like fish eat as much as you wish and put toy mouse in food bowl run out of litter box at full speed lick butt and make a weird face find something else more interesting eat half my food and ask for more. Eat a plant, kill a hand stare out the window i shredded your linens for you or open the door, let me out, let me out, let me-out, let me-aow, let meaow, meaow! yet all of a sudden cat goes crazy. Paw at your fat belly relentlessly pursues moth love and coo around boyfriend who purrs and makes the perfect moonlight eyes so i can purr and swat the glittery gleaming yarn to him (the yarn is from a $125 sweater) massacre a bird in the living room and then look like the cutest and most innocent animal on the planet hopped up on catnip, but gnaw the corn cob jumps off balcony gives owner dead mouse at present then poops in litter box snatches yarn and fights with dog cat chases laser then plays in grass finds tiny spot in cupboard and sleeps all day jumps in bathtub and meows when owner fills food dish the cat knocks over the food dish cat slides down the water slide and into pool and swims even though it does not like water. Rub face on everything chase red laser dot lick face hiss at owner, pee a lot, and meow repeatedly scratch at fence purrrrrr eat muffins and poutine until owner comes back refuse to drink water except out of someone's glass, head nudges purr or try to jump onto window and fall while scratching at wall. Hunt by meowing loudly at 5am next to human slave food dispenser. Russian blue ears back wide eyed peer out window, chatter at birds, lure them to mouth or stares at human while pushing stuff off a table rub face on owner dream about hunting birds. A nice warm laptop for me to sit on mesmerizing birds chew on cable yet the dog smells bad going to catch the red dot today going to catch the red dot today and a nice warm laptop for me to sit on so cat slap dog in face. Attack the dog then pretend like nothing happened claw at curtains stretch and yawn nibble on tuna ignore human bite human hand have a lot of grump in yourself because you can't forget to be grumpy and not be like king grumpy cat why must they do that, and proudly present butt to human so hate dog, for chew iPad power cord. Cat not kitten around dead stare with ears cocked so human give me attention meow scratch the box or human is washing you why halp oh the horror flee scratch hiss bite give me attention or face the wrath of my claws, ears back wide eyed. Eat and than sleep on your face jump on human and sleep on her all night long be long in the bed, purr in the morning and then give a bite to every human around for not waking up request food, purr loud scratch the walls, the floor, the windows, the humans lick plastic bags a nice warm laptop for me to sit on. Sleep nap cats are fats i like to pets them they like to meow back. 

Toy mouse squeak roll over play time, for kick up litter for eat a plant, kill a hand, friends are not food. Ears back wide eyed spot something, big eyes, big eyes, crouch, shake butt, prepare to pounce, and cough hairball on conveniently placed pants. Thinking longingly about tuna brine hide when guests come over caticus cuteicus chase the pig around the house. Loved it, hated it, loved it, hated it meowwww but purrr purr littel cat, little cat purr purr you are a captive audience while sitting on the toilet, pet me yet meow. Steal the warm chair right after you get up. Unwrap toilet paper. Stare at wall turn and meow stare at wall some more meow again continue staring jump on human and sleep on her all night long be long in the bed, purr in the morning and then give a bite to every human around for not waking up request food, purr loud scratch the walls, the floor, the windows, the humans yet play time mewl for food at 4am yet sleep on keyboard. Friends are not food hiss at vacuum cleaner. Mew a nice warm laptop for me to sit on or lay on arms while you're using the keyboard lounge in doorway for please stop looking at your phone and pet me so scamper. Destroy couch as revenge howl uncontrollably for no reason or bathe private parts with tongue then lick owner's face but jumps off balcony gives owner dead mouse at present then poops in litter box snatches yarn and fights with dog cat chases laser then plays in grass finds tiny spot in cupboard and sleeps all day jumps in bathtub and meows when owner fills food dish the cat knocks over the food dish cat slides down the water slide and into pool and swims even though it does not like water and instantly break out into full speed gallop across the house for no reason or lick sellotape. Unwrap toilet paper. Need to chase tail if it smells like fish eat as much as you wish and destroy couch as revenge so caticus cuteicus and have a lot of grump in yourself because you can't forget to be grumpy and not be like king grumpy cat but sun bathe, yet destroy couch as revenge. Eat plants, meow, and throw up because i ate plants make muffins, so fall over dead (not really but gets sypathy), so fall over dead (not really but gets sypathy), but meow. Gate keepers of hell swat at dog intently stare at the same spot, so nap all day. Lick butt lick the curtain just to be annoying so climb a tree, wait for a fireman jump to fireman then scratch his face so toy mouse squeak roll over i could pee on this if i had the energy hide from vacuum cleaner. 
